---
layout:     post
title:      "Growing our betalist with BetaList"
subtitle:   "How BetaList made it easy for us to get beta users"
date:       2016-04-8 10:00:00
author:     "Ben Kissi"
header-img: "img/beta.jpg"
disqus: true
---

<p>
My team and I, three young entrepreneurs from the Meltwater Entrepreneurial School of Technology (MEST), pitched our product to a panel  of  seasoned startup entrepreneurs and venture capitalist judges at a recent MEST sponsored event.  The panel of judges included Amber Fowler of EchoVC, Nik Fasting founder, CEO and CTO of Syncano and Jorn Lyseggen founder and CEO of Meltwater. We received great feedback and we were encouraged to complete the journey we had started four months prior. Our startup journey is just beginning; three ambitious and determined entrepreneurs about to set sail from the shores of Africa with a globally relevant e-commerce tool
</p>

<p>Our company’s product <a target="blank" href="http://cocktailinsights.com/">Cocktail Insights</a>, is designed to enable businesses  (with a focus on eCommerce businesses and merchants) to measure and maximize the returns of their social media efforts. Businesses leverage on social media to engage their audience and market their services or products. Most often than not, they find it difficult to answer questions such as:
</p>
<ul>
	<li>How much revenue is generated by a specific post or campaign?</li>
	<li>What is the disparity between the demography of engaging audiences on the  various social Channels and actual customers making purchases?</li>
	<li>How much revenue is generated by campaigns and posts?</li>
	<li>Which social media platform is the best performing channel?</li>
	<li>Which audience group should be targeted with campaigns?</li>
	<li>What type of content drives engagement and conversion?</li>
</ul>

<p>We believe that by providing valuable insights to the questions above, we can help eCommerce businesses and merchants  improve their social media efforts, maximize their returns and grow their business.</p>

<p>We recognize that building a product and launching a startup is an ongoing journey. We had to work hard and smart to produce a product that meets the ever evolving needs of innovative e-commerce businesses and merchants. We poured hours into developing, testing and modifying  our product. After six weeks of development, our MVP was ready. Cocktail Insights has joined the African armada of startups, it was poised and ready to conquer its own share of the social media analytics and attribution market.
</p>

<p>Wait…there was one more thing to do. Our MVP was ready, and the next thing to do was to acquire beta testers. We created a landing page and used social media to market it organically.  We also researched on platforms we could leverage on to build our email list; we found <a target="blank" href="http://betalist.com/">BetaList</a>. We did not want to spend money on something that did not work, so we decided to use the free listings of BetaList just to test it and measure its impact. Cocktail Insights was <a target="blank" href="http://betalist.com/startups/cocktail-insights">publish</a> on BetaList on 26th March, 2016. Within 3 days we had 175 unique sessions from Betalist and 83 sign ups, that is a conversion rate of 47%.  That is impressive for a free listing. Our email list is still growing and we are preparing to launch our beta in April, 2016.
</p>

<p>We know there will always be challenges and we would just have to find a way through it all. This time, the solution to our problem was BetaList, tomorrow it would be something else. After all, “when there is a will, there is a way”. We do not know what lies ahead, but you can only know what the future holds if you march bravely into it. Join us, as we sail into the future, a lot of Cocktail Insights would be served.</p>


<blockquote>"We must free ourselves of the hope that the sea will ever rest. We must learn to sail in high winds.-Aristotle Onassis"
</blockquote>
